people with a single palmar crease
have just one line running across their
palm while the majority of the world's
population has two
also called the simian crease this
feature is found
only in 1.5 percent of the world's
population
men are more likely to have a single
palmar crease than women
in most cases it runs in families
less than 50 people have ever had the rh
null blood type
dubbed gold and blood for the first time
this blood type was discovered in an
australian aboriginal woman
this unique blood type is universal and
can be accepted by anyone
even those with rare blood types within
the rh system three percent of people
all over the planet have lines creating
the letter x
on both their hands this is a rare
phenomenon
and in many cultures this feature is
believed to be a sign of a strong
character
about 25 percent of people have an
interesting reaction to sunlight
they sneeze this phenomenon even has its
own name
the photic sneeze reflex in the greek
language
it's called sun sneezing in some
people saliva accumulates in a gland
under their tongue
then it can get propelled out in a
stream when a person presses on this
gland
if the mouth is open at the moment a jet
can reach several feet
this process called gleaking can occur
spontaneously
a person accidentally pushes their
tongue against the gland while eating
yawning talking or cleaning their teeth
and
voila up to 35 percent of people can
gleak
but just one percent can do it on
command
less than one percent of the world's
population has dextrocardia
that's a rare condition when the heart
points toward the right side of the
chest
rather than the left side sometimes
people with this unique feature have all
their internal organs
on the mirror image side of the body
ocular albinism affects only a person's
eyes
their hair and skin are usually a bit
lighter than that of their family
members
but the difference isn't that dramatic
albinism is a rare feature to have
but if it's ocular that's even more
unique
experts don't have exact numbers but
they think
between one person and twenty thousand
to one person in
50 000 have ocular albinism
you may have a tiny hole at the top of
your ear where it meets the temple
if so you're among 10 percent of the
world's population
this hole is most commonly found on the
right side
but some people have it on both of their
ears these holes may go all the way
through
or they can be dimples dense or even
small lumps
around 65 percent of the world's
population have loop shaped fingerprints
in thirty percent of people fingerprints
are whirl shaped
and only five percent of people have arc
shaped fingerprints
all these types are divided into smaller
groups for example
there might be plane or tinted arches
accidental whirls or
peacock's eye and so on hey who knew
most people have 12 pairs of ribs which
makes 24 in total
but 1 in 200 people has an additional
25th
rib called cervical it forms at the base
of the neck above the collarbone
it can grow on the left right or even
both sides
those with extra ribs most likely know
nothing about this modification
that's because an extra rib rarely forms
completely
and can look like a thin strand of
tissue in this case
you won't even see it on an x-ray if you
have a circular hair whirl on your head
it's likely to be clockwise some
scientists think there's a genetic link
between hair world direction and
handedness
a bit more than eight percent of
right-handed people have
counterclockwise hair whirls
but in the left-handed this number grows
up to 45 percent
when you're asked to clasp your hands
which finger do you put on top
if it's the right thumb above the left
one you're among 50 percent of the
world's population
49 percent of people position their left
thumb above the right
and a mere one percent place their
thumbs next to each other
red hair occurs naturally in a mere one
to two percent of the world's population
most often redheads have northern or
northwestern european origin
this color is caused by a genetic
mutation the hue can vary from
bright copper and auburn to red orange
and strawberry blonde
only three to 22 percent of people in
the world have morton's toe
it's a foot structure when the second
toe is longer than the first one
michelangelo's david and the statue of
liberty both have this unusual body
feature
and they aren't even alive oops spoiler
sorry only two people out of every ten
thousand have an unusually shaped pupil
most commonly it resembles a keyhole
this eye disorder is called coloboma
luckily people with this condition don't
usually have
any problems with their vision you know
on second thought
it's not so rare all of my teachers
thought i was an unusual pupil
having different colored eyes
heterochromia is a rare body feature
that occurs in less than one percent of
people it can be complete
then a person has eyes of two different
colors for example
one brown and one blue a person can also
have a differently colored ring around
the pupil
it's central heterochromia and partial
heterochromia
is when a part of one iris has a
different color from the rest of it
people with dystociasis have one more
row of
eyelashes this phenomenon is a genetic
mutation
it's not harmful in any way but can
cause some discomfort
a hair can grow where an oil gland is
supposed to be on the wet part of the
eyelid
then it causes irritation and
there are people who don't have to
stress over how much calcium they
consume
they have a rare mutation in the lrp5
gene
it gives them mega dense bones almost
unable to break
one of the few drawbacks of this
condition such people have difficulty
staying afloat while swimming some women
have super color vision
tetrachromacy thanks to special cells in
their eyes
these cells are called cones and a
regular person has three types of them
but tetrachromats have four cones it
allows them to see
100 million different colors
the tec-2 gene lets people work more and
sleep less
nicholas tesla winston churchill and
margaret thatcher
all had this unusual feature the gene
basically allows a person to go through
their sleep cycle in less time than
regular people need
another gene mutation helps people keep
their bad cholesterol levels extremely
low
the gene gives your body instructions
for producing a protein
that controls the amount of cholesterol
in your blood
unfortunately only two to three percent
of people have this useful feature
only four percent of people have an audi
belly button
several factors like the fat
distribution around your waistline or
genetics
determine which kind of belly button
you'll end up with
genetics play a crucial role even in
your taste buds
up to 25 percent of the population are
super tasters
they have more visible taste papillae
those are tiny dots littering your
tongue
than regular tasters this extra option
makes them more
sensitive to certain foods for example
sweet
bitter or salty super tasters also have
more pain receptors on their tongue
that's why they shy away from spicy food
when wisdom teeth try to break through
the gums they often run out of space and
have to be
taken out around 5 million people go
through such surgery
every year but 35 percent of the world's
population don't have to worry about
pain and
inconvenience they lack wisdom teeth all
together
long palm muscles helped our ancestors
to climb trees
even though most of us don't need this
option anymore some people are still
born this way
you can check whether you have these
muscles by putting your palm on a flat
surface
and touching your thumb to your pinky if
they do exist
they'll pop out of your wrist scientists
claim
tibetans are genetically mutated to be
able to live at such high
altitudes one of their genes is
responsible for fast adapting to falling
oxygen levels
the same gene is also leaked with
improved endurance in athletes
by the way it was one of the fastest
evolutionary mutations ever recorded in
people
it developed in less than three thousand
years
gray eyes are an incredibly rare body
feature
only one percent of the human population
are born with gray
eyes such people have low levels of
melanin in the front part of their
irises
blue eyes are also not as common as you
might think
just eight to 17 percent of people have
them an even rarer thing
is a combination of red hair and blue
eyes
if a person is born like this it means
both their parents carried these genes
for a child to have